Security in Java EE Applications
The Java EE security specification supports a set of required security functionalities, including authentication,
authorization, data integrity, and transport security. Before going deep into Java EE security, everyone should know
the following terms:

A Caller or User is an individual named identity defined in an identity store.

A Credential contains or references information used to authenticate a caller. Examples of credentials are usernames/
passwords, (API) tokens, or JWT tokens.

A Group is an abstract concept defined by the Java EE specification and is a name or label that classifies users with
a set of common characteristics that usually leads to a set of common permissions. Groups can be broadly defined and
mirror real-life groups such as “admin” or “manager”, but can also be more fine-grained and more technically oriented,
such as “view_user_pages”. A group can be defined by the application (typically when using an embedded authentication
mechanism via e.g. JASPIC) or external to the application (typically when using a vendor-specific authentication
mechanism and/or identity store).

A Role is another abstract concept defined by the Java EE specification and like a group is also a name or label that
classifies users with a set of common characteristics. The difference is in hierarchy; a group can be mapped to one or
more roles, and a role, not a group, is used primarily to specify the permissions used to protect application
resources. Java EE declarative security, such as constraints in web.xml, only works with roles, but using the JACC
specification application resources can be protected directly via groups if so desired. For example, a URL in a web
application may be protected by a “Reader” role, or a particular EJB method may be protected by an “Approver” role.
Roles are defined by the application.

The Operational environment is the environment in which the Java EE application is deployed and that, among others,
contains data and systems that are external to the Java EE application. For Java EE security there are two main
variations of this environment.
